---
layout: post
title: Using configuration management at home
---

During my wife's recent trip to the east coast I decided I would take my circa 2015 macbook and fully automate it and manage it with a configuration management software.  You  might want to know what kind of sick puppy would do this intentionally **{me}**.  Here was my thinking:
1. As a manager, I don't get to do as much hands on work as I'd like
2. I'm frustrated by the config drift I have at home...everything is a snowflake
3. I wanted to learn [CHEF](https://learn.chef.io) **more on that later**

Why CHEF? I wanted to use the same technology we use at work. Unfortunately, I did not find many *current* examples of folks using chef to manage their own personal machines. I did experiment with the excellent examples by [jtimberman](https://github.com/jtimberman/workstation-chef-repo) and [echohack](https://github.com/echohack/chef_desktop), but in the case of Joshua's repo, it hasn't changed in about 5 years and echohack's in a MVP.  

In the end, I found a ton of folks using Ansible for their daily drivers.  Since I'm relatively proficient with CHEF on Windows, I ventured into the unknown with Ansible/Mac **(#GrowthMindset)**.  I might even make some new friends with our Networking team due to the python orientation of Ansible.

I started out with [Richard van den Brand's blog post](https://blog.vandenbrand.org/2016/01/04/how-to-automate-your-mac-os-x-setup-with-ansible/) and particularly liked the simplicity and manipulation of OS X features such as the dock.  Ultimately I forked & implemented [Jeff Geerling's repo](https://github.com/geerlingguy/mac-dev-playbook) as I preferred his organization and extendability.  With Jeff's implementation you will really only need to modify the default.config.yml file.  I added a macbuild.sh to bootstrap my process.  This would enable me to manage the entire process even before homebrew/git were set up.

```bash
bash <(curl -Ls https://raw.githubusercontent.com/scottnasello/mac-dev-playbook/master/macbuild.sh)
```
The only pain point I never quite figured out was installing xcode...Although several folks provide methods to silently install, it never seemed to work for me on Sierra (10.12.5).  

I invested about 12 hours into this process and now my mac **(this mac)** is fully managed via my github repo and ansible.  Here's a short video of the bootstrapping process (IRL: 15 minutes, condensed to 15 seconds)

<video src = "/videos/ScottAnsible-final.mp4" width="640" height="400" controls preload></video>
