---
layout: post
title: The case for Hot Yoga
excerpt: "I owe my #DevOps career to Hot Yoga"
---

## 5 Reasons I love Hot Yoga
* I owe my DevOps career to Hot Yoga

    Many of us in the DevOps community have a [Phoenix Project](https://www.amazon.com/Phoenix-Project-DevOps-Helping-Business/dp/1942788290?keywords=phoenix+project&qid=1538282916&sr=8-1&ref=sr_1_1) story. In my case, I was lucky enough to catch [Gene Kim](@RealGeneKim) discussing many of the concepts from the book such as the [three ways](https://itrevolution.com/the-three-ways-principles-underpinning-devops/) and I felt thunderstruck by the application of Theory of Constraints and many of Deming's ideas to IT.  These ideas made a ton of sense to me because earlier in my career I had spent a number of years designing, implementing, and sometimes operating large scale Supply Chain Planning Systems.  Sometimes this also meant leading manufacturing transformations (Toyota Production System, Lean, Just In Time, Kanban, etc.). 

    I was leading our software development teams (.NET, java, ABAP, SQL, EDI, BizTalk, Informatica) and we had started exploring some areas to apply DevOps...In those days you didn't hear about very much DevOps innovation in enterprises let alone in enterprises focused on the Microsoft stack or N Tier Packaged (COTS) Software.      
    **What about the Yoga?** Around 2014 I was doing a lot of [hot yoga](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bikram_Yoga) and during [Shavasana](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shavasana) I was reflecting on what I really wanted to be when I grew up.  Although I enjoyed most things in the IT leadership realm, I was getting a bit restless and I really missed being a part of a business transformation. Luckily I had opportunity to lead our Platforms & Systems Engineering teams which would be well outside my background but would be a great place to focus on building a learning organization focused on continuous improvement.  I credit Hot Yoga with putting me into the frame of mind to take on this new challenge.

* #GrowthMindset
    * As DevOps practioners we often talk about going outside of a comfort zones by challenging ourselves with different ways of working, new technologies, or taking risks.  
    * Hot Yoga is an opportunity to push myself outside my comfort zone but in physical way.  The more I push myself, the more I get out of it. I often find this practice seeping into my professional activities by encouraging me to go outside my comfort zone.  As I role model #GrowthMindset I do notice colleagues going outside their comfort zones as well.
* Counter Measure for aging
* Sweating out the impurities
* Shavasana - 3 to 5 minutes of complete clarity
* Pho