---
layout: post
title: So you inherited a legacy team, now what?
excerpt: ""
---

Congratulations! You have inherited a team with lots of classic technologies and practices.  Having been in the position multiple times I can tell you it's very challenging but also can be quite fulfilling.

With the departure of one of my managers I recently found myself leading a SAP Systems Engineering (BASIS) team.  All of a sudden I recall that I haven't logged into SAP in more than 10 years.

Your new team needs your perspective, experience, and most of all you understanding as the learn to work differently along their journey.  I have a few suggestions to make your new role more effective

## 1. Your new folks are not resources
Your new team wants you to see them as individuals.  Individuals with hopes, concerns, ideas, and occasional bouts of imposter syndrome.  Hopefully you will get to spend a few minutes one on one in the first few days.  Making this a priority can also be symbolic with the team. 

As tempting as it will be to jump straight into business, I'd recommend that you learn more about your team on a personal level.  I'm a big fan of walking one on ones, especially with technical folks as it allows a less formal discussion.  If you have topics you don't want to forget you might jot down a bullet list prior to the meeting.

## 2. Seek First To Understand
After getting to know your team a bit now you can ask lots of open ended questions. Some of my favorites: 
* What's working well?
* What's not working well?
* What should we stop, start, and continue?  
* Do they have a backup on the team for their critical activities?

You will likely find out that a great number of things need to be addressed but it will be impossible to handle them all at once.  It's vital that you not rush this phase of doing discovery because you don't want to make ill-informed changes that will make things worse.  In addition, if you make a bunch of changes before hearing feedback from the team, do you think they will trust you when you say you want their opinions?

## 3. Legacy ain't bad
Your team has spent many years specializing in designing, building, testing, hardening,and operating systems that support critical revenue generation capabilities within your companany.  It's quite possible these systems may even subsidize teams supporting new technolgies.  

These systems often get a bad rap for being difficult to work with, antiquated technologies, or inflexible.  We take for granted the elasticity and other capabilities common place today.  

You should endeavor to have empathy for the legacy/classic systems your new team has to support.  Just because it's from a earlier time does not mean that it is inferior to greenfield systems.  As you gain more familiarity with the technologies in your team a great perspective is to assume best intent from all involved and there was probably a good reason for why the system was implemented in a given way.  This means you may need to be a forensic detective at times. 

Just because you have legacy implementations doesn't mean we can't apply newer architectural approaches, but as a point of caution don't change things just for the sake of implementing the new hotness.

## 4. Trust
Two way trust is the only way you'll create success.  The team has to trust that you have their best interests in mind while also trying to fulfill both long and short term enterprise objectives.   In the early days they are watching everything you do to guage whether you really mean what you say.  Ideally you are able to cultivate win-win scenarios that benefit the team as well as the enterprise.  

Building trust will take quite a bit of time.  One of my examples is from Turn the Ship Around by David Marquet.  If you aren't familiar with the story, Captain Marquet inherits a nuclear sub he is relatively uneducated on. He decides he needs to trust the crew to operate the ship while guiding them to higher levels of autonomy, mastery, and purpose.  

Consistently setting a high standard as a leader will be one of your best friends in building trust.  Your team needs to know where you stand and that you aren't playing favorites.  You can help your team to know where you are coming from by communicating early and often, even if you feel like you are repeating yourself.

## 5. Reassurance
While meeting with the SAP Basis team I mentioned that we have more demand that we have cycles to do the work and I'm interested in bringing in contractors to help with the backlog.  My heart was in the right place (reduce backlog, reduce hours, mitigate burnout), but I think they quickly became worried I was exploring replacing them with contractors.  In retrospect I had not done enough to reassure the team that they had done nothing wrong and that contractors were being pursued to improve the quality of their professional lives.

After a couple of months one of the engineers who initially was worried about outsourcing told me "We probably need some short term contract help to work thought the backlog".  

The idea I'm trying to impress upon them is we don't need to own every facet of operating the services, especially if we can consume services in via higher level of abstraction. This idea flies in the face of almost everything the members of the team has known over the last couple of decades.

This same team will be moving some critical services to use IaaS in the public cloud over the next few months.  They understand the decision at logic level but periodically need to revisit "the why" when their emotional decision making gets involved.

## 6. What's your vision?
We can't pursue too many things at one time.  In our case this team is heavily interrupted, I wanted to expose all the work (Work is Work).  Also I felt like understanding the work (frequency, characteristics, etc.) would provide leverage and interest for things such as reducing batches or value stream mapping. 

The core conflict appears to be : "I'm super busy already.  If I am blocked on a task such as waiting for someone to give me something, I should switch tasks and work on something else."  This approach seems reasonable and pragmatic but it contributes to the problem.  I continue to spend a fair bit of time with the team reminding them that we want to have all the work represented on the board.

As this team is an systems engineering team with many stakeholders and interruptions, we are working in 1 week sprints.  I belive this puts an appropriate emphasis on prioritizing what is important this week while also providing a more forgiving process for stakeholders.   I can justify not taking their task on day 2 of the sprint because on day 6 we will start a new sprint and we'd be happy to prioritze their need alongside other items.

They probably don't need to hear about how awesome DevOps is but that doesn't mean you can't focus on a couple of outcomes.  

## 7. Tough Love

After understanding how your team works, cultivating the beginnings of trust, and determining what to focus on you are now ready to reinforce some changes that will be required as you move forward.  Here's a summary of a discussion I had with the Basis team a few weeks ago.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet tw-align-center" data-lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">I’m temporarily leading a team while hiring a new leader.<br><br>Yesterday I told them:<br>1) multitasking is a MYTH<br>2) work in smaller batches<br>3) ALL work on the <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/kanban?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#kanban</a><br>4) quality feedback to partners<br>5) not victims of circumstance<br>6) empowered to experiment</p>&mdash; Scott Nasello (I&#39;m hiring) (@scottnasello) <a href="https://twitter.com/scottnasello/status/1042789795682934784?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 20, 2018</a></blockquote>
<script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

Let's look at each of thee in more detail.

* **Multitasking is a myth** : In our established ways of working, it often seems like we should pick a different task when another task is blocked.  Although our computers can legitimately multi-task, we can't focus on more than one thing at a time.  Attempting to multitask causes an expensive context switch while also placing drag on the current task.  

* **work in smaller batches** :  Related to the idea of multi tasking being a myth, we should work in smaller batches so we can consistently focus on shipping value.  While working in smaller batches we should have less occasion to multitask and we are less likely to be blocked by other people.  The other benefits of working in smaller batches?  
    * We receive feedback about the quality of our work so we can improve in real time.
    * If we have to kill a task we haven't incurred much investment
    * 

* **ALL work on the kanban**:
* **quality feedback to partners**:
* **not victims of circumstance**:
* **empowered to experiment**: 

## Asking for their help

## PDCA

## DevOps by another name

